The monorotor you just saw use
some pretty clever control logic to do some remarkable things,
but the thing I want you to focus on is the rotation of
the monorotor body and where that rotation comes from.
In addition to causing a thrust force,
a rotating propeller also introduces what's called a "moment" or "torque."
So a rotor that's spinning clockwise will produce
a moment that causes the body to spin counterclockwise.
When we design flying aircraft,
we generally don't want the spinning behavior.
If you look at commercially available drones,
you'll notice they almost always have an even number of rotors.
One main reason for this is because it gives us
an easy way to get rid of this unwanted rotation of the vehicle body.
So with the quadrotor,
you'll actually have two different types of rotor plates.
One type is meant to provide upward thrust when spinning
clockwise and the other type is meant to
provide upward thrust when spinning counterclockwise.
We then place these propellers onto the quadrotor in a configuration
where adjacent rotors always spin in the opposite directions.
Then, if we want zero rotation or yaw,
we just make sure all the rotors are spinning at the same rate
so that clockwise torques exactly balance counterclockwise torques.
If we decide we do want the vehicle to yaw,
then we adjust the rotational rates so that
the clockwise rotors are spinning faster or slower than the counterclockwise ones.